Narrative


Kai, in Hawaiian, means the sea. 

Kai knows nothing about Hawaiian, 
but they do like the sea. 

They were born in a port city, 
on an island. 

In their eyes, 
most of the things are like water. 

Fluid. Compound. Ambiguity. 

The coastline is a constant dialogue among the land, the ocean, the wind, the organisms, the physics, the past, the randomness, the chance……

When Kai thinks about boundaries, they recall the coastline.

*****

Kai likes sea creatures as well. 

They once saved the life of a blood-red parrot cichlid, 
kept it for a spring, 
before absentmindedly killing it. 

When Kai first met the fish, 
it was dying due to ceaseless travel, loud sounds and stage lights. 

At that moment, all they had in their university dorm was water. 

They changed the water, 
and stared at the cichlid lying on the bottom of the basin. 

It was the first time they were so close to death--
and also the first time they were so close to a miracle. 
The cichlid started to swim after a few hours, 
before sunrise.

*****

Travel can change one’s physique—
can kill a fish. 

Kai moves a lot. 
Across streets, across cities, across countries. 

They have been traveling in space, in time, in language, in culture, in identity. 
They know travel also shapes one’s very being. 

Sometimes they feel like they are nowhere, 
sometimes they are everywhere. 
Like water. 

The fish died in the summer when Kai was back home.
Before they departed, they managed to give it a pump. 

But it was not until its burial that they realized, 
it might be the leaving that kills.

*****

Even though the fish is perfectly red, 
Kai still prefers green—-
any shade of green.

Forest green. 
Olive. 
Hunter green. 
Artichoke green. 
Bitter lime. 
Bright mint. 
Moss green. 
Spring bud. 
Emerald green. 
Neon green. 
Midnight green. 
Christmas green. 
Road sign green. 
Tennis court green. 

And of course, sea green. 

Reading through these words feels like taking a walk around their childhood. 

They had once doubted if graphic designers could have preferred colors.
Is it biased?

...before they found they were already heavily coded 
with the imprints of their history, society and whereabouts. 

Their body is an archive of practices.
 
They are an ocean of remnants.

*****

They code like they walk. 
Each keystroke corresponds to a step. 

Their websites are liminal in space, in time, in language, in culture, in identity. 

They know they are still on the way to somewhere, to something, to someone--
it does not matter. 

Their websites stay.






All those things take on the shape of containers; mix with elements from different sources; bear multiple meanings, images, concepts and interpretations.

The sea is deep and endless, just like stories, searches and dreams. 